# Introduction
I have done very little in c++ and SDL in the past. Due to a disconnect in my brain in me trying to make a Group like object in SDL.
I come from python/pygame and I wanted to branch out. This is my attempt to understand c++ and SDL in respect to pygame and python. The order of past projects are ordered chronologically from most recent at the bottom to first project at the top.

# Past Projects
- __Hello SDL__ -> A quick example of using SDL to make a window, mostly taken from the wiki. I did comment the translations of the code compared to pygame code to show my understanding
- __Hello eventloop__ -> A little longer example used to show a standard game event loop with user input and a moving square. I also used an FPS constrainer to ensure that the program doesn't run too fast.
- __Hello images__ -> using the SDL2_image library to load images from png format to texture format. In this test I learned how to use the image library, move an image, and debug a compiler error. I also got an idea of how to animate a texture in SDL by using the drawing rectangle in the argument for drawing. The compiler error I had was one that stumped me for a bit, it said "undefined refrence to 'IMG_Init'". The fix was to include the image library in the linking process for the MakeFile.
- __Hello fonts__ -> This one was a hard one for while, I followed a wiki-tutorial that I followed pretty closely like I have been for most of these projects. The only challenge though was when running the program, the Text would not appear. The font was loaded but the Text did not appear. The issue was I used one convert text to surface function that required a Uint16 system that was probably the problem. The fix was to use a standard function that allowed for normal string inputs.
- __Hello animation__ -> This project I did not use a tutorial, it was purely experimental. The stem of the project came from the __Hello images__ project, where there were two main rectangles used to draw an image on the screen. ```srcrect``` and ```dstrect``` are the rectangles used in drawing a texture on the screen. ```srcrect``` is used for the portion of the texture you want to draw. ```dstrect``` is used for the position and size of where you want to draw on the screen. I used the ```srcrect``` to loop through a spritesheet. I believe this could also be used in a texture map to save on loading in many different images in a game.
- __Texture atlis test__ -> This project I made a texture atlas where there was a basic (not so good) tileset and an extremely simple spritesheet. This project I used the texture atlas to both map out the scene and also animate the spritesheet. I also learnt the importance of colorkeying the alpha-pixels.
- __Memory Do's and Dont's__ -> This project I made linked list for strings. I couldn't really think of a way to handle memory in a game (that was simple) so I asked a friend and they recommended a linked list to do. This linked list is a forward linked list (probably not the official name but that's what I call it). Essentially each item only nows what's infront of it not behind it. Each element had to be allocated to memory and to add to the list you had to supply the last element with the address of the next element. This proved difficult to deallocate. I deallocated the linked list by keeping storing the address of the next item in the loop before freeing the current item in the loop (int next = x + 1; free(x); x = next; // it's essentially like this) by doing that you don't cut your head off before remembering how to cut your neck off as well.
# Projects To Come
- __Hello sound__ -> a project to learn how to use sound when working with SDL.
- __A mini-game__ -> This project should be used to combine all the skills I have learnt up until now.
- __Something I haven't thought of yet__ -> I love learning but I can't exactly think of everything I have to learn about right now. The list will continue to grow, and so will my completed projects.